# ProMedica-Innovations
Mobile App for ProMedica Innovations

## Title: 
ProMedica Innovations Application

## Description: 
Our team designed and developed an Idea Submission System for ProMedica Innovations. Inventors can quickly and easily share their idea with the PI Team. Once submitted, the system will let the Project Managers know that a submission is awaiting review. Our Administrators will be able to see all the uploaded idea submissions. We used Visual Studio 2022/ Visual Studio 2019 as our Development and Testing Environments, Xamarin Forms (XML/XAML) as our Mobile Development Platform, and C# as our Programming Language. 

## Goals of the Project: 
People using the app can learn about partnering and becoming an innovator alongside the PI Team. They can explore more about the rising technologies the PI Team is involved with creating. They can meet the ProMedica Innovations Team. They will be able to see the impact made by the new technologies and PI’s partners. They can keep up to date with the latest ProMedica Innovations news and events. They can easily submit their ideas through the simple use of the Idea Form.

## Challenges: 
We did experience some differences in appearance when viewing the application on different platforms and at different pixel ratios/ densities than recommended. The flyout menu code that was previously used to view the login information is left in the code but commented out. The big things that we still need to include are a splash screen, a confirmation screen, and Innovator's ability to receive email notification updates about status changes to their idea. Note: The menu/home screen is incorrectly named as “splash screen”. The administrator credentials are hardcoded into the application's solution file so someone could easily find them and "hack" into the application (this was done on purpose for ease of use). The application will look slightly off running on any other device than recommended because the application was created and formatted for a Google Pixel 3 - 5 series running Android 11 - 12: 1080 x 2160 PX with ~ 443-pixel density (currently not possible on Bluestacks or can be efficiently run on a "common" computer).

### (Use of Solution File) For Best Results: 
Download the solution file and then we recommend using Visual Studio 2022 with the Xamarin Studio Package installed Emulated on the Google Pixel 3 or 5 running Android 11 - 12 (use 16 GB+ of RAM for best results, otherwise the application will run slower, and we recommend you wait for it to catch up) for the best viewing our application. Once you have launched the solution file in Visual Studio, click on Tools in the Navigation menu, then Android, then Android Device Manager. The Android Device Manager window will pop up and click on the New plus button to add a new Device Emulator. Make sure the Base Device selected is Pixel 3, 4, or 5. Then the OS: is Android 11.0 - API 30 or Android 12.0 - API 31. Then click create. Go back to the main Visual Studios 2022 page and right-click on the Solution 'ProMedica Innovations' file and then select Build Solution. Wait for it to finish building then a play button should appear next to the name of the emulator you just created at the center top of your navigation bar (if not click on the down arrow next to the play button and select your emulator. Now you are all set to run the emulator. Press the play button and wait for the application to launch (at the bottom of the Visual Studio window there will be a red bar that says XAML Hot Reload connected meaning that the application is ready to use on the emulator. You can now begin navigating through the application. 
Extra instructions can be found here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TfLGFYiniEM
Note: If you download Visual Studio 2022 and then launch the solution file without downloading the Xamarin Studio Packages, Visual Studio 2022 will recommend the packages to download that are needed to run the solution file.

### (Recommended) How to Use Our Application on an Android Phone (Recommended: running at least Android 11): 
Download the APK file to your phone in the attached folder, then go to Settings > Apps > Special App > Access > Install Unknown Apps > then click (the name of where you are downloading the APK file from) > Then select "Allow from this source". Once that is completed the APK will display as an application on your home screen with the ProMedica Logo and you will be able to start using the application by clicking on it to launch. 
Extra instructions can be found here: https://www.bestusefultips.com/enable-unknown-sources-on-pixel-3/

### How to Use Our Application on Computer Emulator: 
Download the APK file to your computer in the attached folder, Download the compatible version Bluestacks 5 for your computer. Then drag the APK file over to the desktop of the Bluestacks 5 emulator screen. Wait for it to stop downloading. Then press the 3-line menu in the right-hand corner and then settings. Configure the settings as follows set: Performance > CPU allocation: Medium, Performance > Memory allocation > Medium, Performance Mode: High, (And save changes and restart the application) Then go back into settings and make the following changes: Display > Display Resolution: 540 x 960, Display > Pixel Density > 160 (Low) (And save changes and restart the application). Once that is completed the APK will display as an application on your home screen with the ProMedica Logo and you will be able to start using the application by clicking on it to launch. 
Note: The application will look slightly off as the application was created and formatted for a Google Pixel 3 running Android 12: 1080 x 2160 PX with ~ 443-pixel density (currently not possible on Bluestacks or can be efficiently run on a "common" computer).

### Navigating the Application: 
Once on the home screen, you will see 11 buttons. The first square tile is Innovators: People using the app can learn about partnering and becoming an innovator alongside the PI Team. Next is Technology: They can explore more about the rising technologies the PI Team is involved with creating. Ventures: They will be able to see the impact made by the new technologies and PI’s partners. PI Team: They can meet the ProMedica Innovations Team. Submit Idea: They can easily submit their ideas through the simple use of the Idea Form. Then at the bottom of the application, the navigation bar displays a HOME button: Takes the user back to the home page you are currently on when you are currently on another page listed on the navigation bar (otherwise if the user is on a tile page they will have to simply press the back arrow that appears at the top left-hand corner of the screen), next is the ABOUT button: Gives the users a little background information on ProMedica Innovations in general, their values and what they do, then next is the NEWS button: The users can keep up to date with the latest ProMedica Innovations news and events, then the SUBMIT button: is a repeated button from the tile menu for extra convenience to the user, and last is the LOGIN button: Our Administrators will be able to see all the uploaded idea submissions with the default credentials: Username: Admin and Password: promedica

### Credits: 
This application was made in partnership with the University of Findlay and ProMedica Innovations. We would like to give a special thanks to the Project Manager: Michael Saleh from ProMedica Innovations for starting this project and guiding us to create his vision for this application. This application was designed and created by the University of Findlay's Software Engineering Team Members: Hunter Marleau: GitHub profile marleauh, Espyn Taylor: GitHub profile taylore1-99, and Katelyn Trausch GitHub profile trauschk.
